# VendingMachine

##Instructions to run code
To update the available products, upload a new .json file into the jsonfiles folder, where it then can be acessed by the program. Run main.java to start the vending machine.

##Methodology 
When I first read the requirements the first problem I ran into was parsing the JSON file so I was able to use the data inside of it. I used the JSON.simple api to parse the data into a JSONObject array. From there, since it is a vending machine, each object has a key assigned to it. I thought a hashmap would be the best way to store this form of data, the only issue would be with printing it out to the console, since a hashmap isnt ordered. This is was easily solved however by printing it out with a loop. Then I had to add a functionality to accept a file dynamically to change the contents and structure of the vending machine, so I created a class to read in a new file to be parsed. The file would then be parsed as the vending machine contents would be printed out to the user. The user is prompted for a key, and when it is given it searchs through the hashmap for the object associated to that key. The object is returned, money is given by user and change is calculated. This transaction is then sent to a file audit.txt to record transaction history.

##Improvements
A lot of the time I spent on this problem was with learning how to parse the JSON file and then work with and access the data correctly after. I think I can refactor a lot of my code into smaller, more readable classes. This would also help in cases, for example you always need to enter a file name to use the vending machine, if I were able to refactor into classes you would only need to enter a new file when the contents would change. I think my auditing can be improved as well, perhaps creating a new file each time the program runs, just updating totals of products sold and money made. The audit also doesn't deal with the amount variable at all, where it should update it and check if it is greater than 0. Error checking also needs to be improved, there are many user inputs that will result in the code breaking. My main focus was to accomplish the requirements with the time I had, learning to interact with json, relearning concepts of scope, inheritance, etc. Thank you for this oppurtunity I learned a lot through trying to solve this problem!
